0.4.3/quick-start/introduction-forecasting.md, before:

# Introduction to forecasting


## Time series and forecasting

A time series is a sequence of data arranged chronologically, in principle, equally spaced in time. Forecasting is the process of predicting future values of a time series based on its previously observed patterns (autoregressive), or including external variables.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/forecasting_multi-step_en.gif" style="width: 500px"></p>


## Machine learning for forecasting

The main adaptation that needs to be done to apply machine learning models to forecasting problems is to transform the time series into a matrix in which each value is related to the time window (lags) that precedes it.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/transform_timeseries.gif" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<center><font size="2.5"> <i>Time series transformation into a matrix of 5 lags and a vector with the value of the series that follows each row of the matrix.</i></font></center>

This type of transformation also allows to include additional variables.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/matrix_transformation_with_exog_variable.png" style="width: 600px;"></p>

<center><font size="2.5"> <i>Time series transformation including an exogenous variable.</i></font></center>

Once data have been rearranged into the new shape, any regression model can be trained to predict the next value (step) of the series.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-trainig-forecaster.png" style="width: 700px;"></p>


## Single-step forecasting

Single-step prediction is used when the goal is to predict only the next value of the series.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-single-step-forecasting.png" style="width: 700px;"></p>


## Multi-step forecasting

When working with time series, it is seldom needed to predict only the next element in the series (*t+1*). Instead, the most common goal is to predict a whole future interval (*t+1, ..., t+n*)  or a far point in time (*t+n*). Several strategies allow generating this type of prediction.


### Recursive multi-step forecasting

Since the value *t(n-1)* is required to predict *t(n)*, and *t(n-1)* is unknown, it is necessary to make recursive predictions in which, each new prediction, is based on the previous one. This process is known as recursive forecasting or recursive multi-step forecasting.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-recursive-mutistep-forecasting.png" style="width: 650px"></p>


### Direct multi-step forecasting

Direct multi-step forecasting consists of training a different model for each step. For example, to predict the next 5 values of a time series, 5 different models are trained, one for each step. As a result, the predictions are independent of each other.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-direct-multi-step-forecasting.png" style="width: 700px"></p>


### Multiple output forecasting

Some machine learning models, such as long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network, can predict simultaneously several values of a sequence (*one-shot*). This strategy is not currently implemented in skforecast library.


## Backtesting forecasting models

Backtesting is a term used in modeling to refer to testing a predictive model on historical data. Backtesting involves moving backwards in time, step-by-step, in as many stages as are considered necessary. Therefore, it is a special type of cross-validation applied to previous time period(s).

### Backtesting with refit

The model is trained each time before making predictions. With this configuration, the model uses all the information available so far. It is a variation of the standard cross-validation but, instead of making a random distribution of the observations, the training set increases sequentially, maintaining the temporal order of the data.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-refit.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_refit.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>

### Backtesting with refit and fixed train size

A technique similar to backtesting with refit but, in this case, the training set doesn't increase sequentially. This is also known as time series cross-validation or walk-forward validation.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-refit-fixed-train-size.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_refit_fixed_train_size.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>


### Backtesting without refit

After an initial train, the model is used sequentially without updating it and following the temporal order of the data. This strategy has the advantage of being much faster since the model is trained only once. However, the model does not incorporate the latest information available, so it may lose predictive capacity over time.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-no-refit.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_no_refit.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>

Commit message:

Deployed 783999f to 0.4.3 with MkDocs 1.2.3 and mike 1.1.2

0.4.3/quick-start/introduction-forecasting.md, after:

# Introduction to forecasting


## Time series and forecasting

A time series is a sequence of data arranged chronologically, in principle, equally spaced in time. Forecasting is the process of predicting future values of a time series based on its previously observed patterns (autoregressive), or including external variables.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/forecasting_multi-step_en.gif" style="width: 500px"></p>


## Machine learning for forecasting

The main adaptation that needs to be done to apply machine learning models to forecasting problems is to transform the time series into a matrix in which each value is related to the time window (lags) that precedes it.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/transform_timeseries.gif" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<center><font size="2.5"> <i>Time series transformation into a matrix of 5 lags and a vector with the value of the series that follows each row of the matrix.</i></font></center>

This type of transformation also allows to include additional variables.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/matrix_transformation_with_exog_variable.png" style="width: 600px;"></p>

<center><font size="2.5"> <i>Time series transformation including an exogenous variable.</i></font></center>

Once data have been rearranged into the new shape, any regression model can be trained to predict the next value (step) of the series.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-trainig-forecaster.png" style="width: 700px;"></p>


## Single-step forecasting

Single-step prediction is used when the goal is to predict only the next value of the series.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-single-step-forecasting.png" style="width: 700px;"></p>


## Multi-step forecasting

When working with time series, it is seldom needed to predict only the next element in the series (*t+1*). Instead, the most common goal is to predict a whole future interval (*t+1, ..., t+n*)  or a far point in time (*t+n*). Several strategies allow generating this type of prediction.


### Recursive multi-step forecasting

Since the value *t(n-1)* is required to predict *t(n)*, and *t(n-1)* is unknown, it is necessary to make recursive predictions in which, each new prediction, is based on the previous one. This process is known as recursive forecasting or recursive multi-step forecasting and can be easily generated with the `ForecasterAutoreg` and `ForecasterAutoregCustom` classes.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-recursive-mutistep-forecasting.png" style="width: 650px"></p>


### Direct multi-step forecasting

Direct multi-step forecasting consists of training a different model for each step. For example, to predict the next 5 values of a time series, 5 different models are trained, one for each step. As a result, the predictions are independent of each other. This entire process is automated in the `ForecasterAutoregMultiOutput` class. 

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-direct-multi-step-forecasting.png" style="width: 700px"></p>


### Multiple output forecasting

Some machine learning models, such as long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network, can predict simultaneously several values of a sequence (*one-shot*). This strategy is not currently implemented in skforecast library.


## Backtesting forecasting models

Backtesting is a term used in modeling to refer to testing a predictive model on historical data. Backtesting involves moving backward in time, step-by-step, in as many stages as is necessary. Therefore, it is a special type of cross-validation applied to previous period(s).


### Backtesting with refit

The model is trained each time before making predictions. With this configuration, the model uses all the information available so far. It is a variation of the standard cross-validation but, instead of making a random distribution of the observations, the training set increases sequentially, maintaining the temporal order of the data.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-refit.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_refit.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>


### Backtesting with refit and fixed train size

A technique similar to backtesting with refit but, in this case, the training set doesn't increase sequentially. This is also known as time series cross-validation or walk-forward validation.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-refit-fixed-train-size.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_refit_fixed_train_size.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>


### Backtesting without refit

After an initial train, the model is used sequentially without updating it and following the temporal order of the data. This strategy has the advantage of being much faster since the model is trained only once. However, the model does not incorporate the latest information available, so it may lose predictive capacity over time.

<p align="center"><img src="../img/diagram-backtesting-no-refit.png" style="width: 500px;"></p>

<p align="center"><img src="../img/backtesting_no_refit.gif" style="width: 600px;"></p>
